***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer: Data Structures are used to increase the efficiency and performance of an application by organizing the data
 in such a manner that it requires less space with higher processing speed.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer: Sorting, Merging, Deleting, Inserting, Searching and more.

When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer: A data structure is a particular way of organizing data in a computer so that it can be used effectively.


What is an Array?
Answer: An array is a collection of elements of the same type placed in contiguous memory locations that can be
individually referenced by using an index to a unique identifier.

What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer: Array is a fixed length data structure whereas ArrayList is a variable length Collection class. We cannot
change length of array once created in Java but ArrayList can be changed. We cannot store primitives in ArrayList,
 it can only store objects. But array can contain both primitives and objects in Java.

What is a LinkedList?
Answer:  A linked list consists of nodes where each node contains a data field and a reference(link) to the next
node in the list.

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer: An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. Linked List is an ordered collection of
elements of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers.

What is a Queue?
Answer: Queue in Java is a linear-ordered data structure that follows FIFO (First In, First Out) ordering of elements.
 This means that the element inserted first in the queue will be the first element to be removed.

What is a Stack (referring to data structures)?
Answer: Stacks in Data Structures is a linear type of data structure that follows the LIFO (Last-In-First-Out)
principle and allows insertion and deletion operations from one end of the stack data structure, that is top.

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer: First in, first out (FIFO). It is a method for handling data structures where the first
 element is processed first and the newest element is processed last. Last in, first out (LIFO),  It is a method for
 handling data structures where the last element is processed first and the first element is processed last.

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer: Big O Notation in Data Structure is used to express algorithmic complexity using algebraic terms. It describes
the upper bound of an algorithm's runtime and calculates the time and amount of memory needed to execute the algorithm
 for an input value.

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer: Sequential search is the best that we can do when trying to find a value in an unsorted array.
But if the array is sorted in increasing order by value, then we can use a process called binary search.

What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer: The worst-case performance is when the search item appears at the end of the list or not at all.

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer: A tree is a hierarchical data structure defined as a collection of nodes. Nodes represent value and nodes
are connected by edges. A tree has the following properties: The tree has one node called root. The tree originates
 from this, which means it does not have any parent.

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer: A graph is a non-linear kind of data structure made up of nodes or vertices and edges. The edges connect
any two nodes in the graph, and the nodes are also known as vertices.

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer: HashMap is non-synchronized whereas Hashtable is synchronized, which means Hashtable is thread-safe and can
be shared between multiple threads but HashMap can not be shared between multiple threads without proper synchronization.

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer:
Hashmap is a collection of key-value pairs and an array of nodes. It uses an array and LinkedList for storing key-value pairs.
Hashmap also uses a method called Hashing that converts an object into integer form through Hashcoding.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer: When the index is outside the bunds -- less than zero OR greater than the array size minus one.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer: using loops or the built-in array copy method

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer:
    Using source: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-bfs-and-dfs/

    DFS, Depth First Search, is an edge-based technique. It uses the Stack data structure and performs two stages,
    first visited vertices are pushed into the stack, and second if there are no vertices then visited vertices are popped.

    BFS, Breadth-First Search, is a vertex-based technique for finding the shortest path in the graph.
    It uses a Queue data structure that follows first in first out. In BFS,
    one vertex is selected at a time when it is visited and marked then its adjacent are visited and stored in the queue.
    It is slower than DFS.

What is Recursion?
Answer: When calling the method inside of the method.

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer:
Arrays, stacks, linked lists, and queues are the forms of a linear data structure.
Trees, graphs, are the forms of a non-linear data structure.

Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:
Selection Sort	Ω (n^2)	θ (n^2)	O (n^2)	O (1)
Bubble Sort	Ω (n)	θ (n^2)	O (n^2)	O (1)
Insertion Sort	Ω (n)	θ (n^2)	O (n^2)	O (1)
